# OV7670-Camera-FPGA-Implementation
This repository is an implementation of an OV7670 Camera with an AMD Urbana board equipped with a Spartan 7 FPGA.

This code was developed by Colby Steber and Alexander Mellas in the Spring of 2024 for an FPGA class at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. The purpose of this project was to successfully livestream the RGB data from an OV7670 camera to an HDMI output on the AMD Urbana board. In doing so, the BRAM provided on the FPGA did not have enough storage to hold 12 bits of RGB data per pixel, so the least significant bit on each RGB value was unused, therefore removing the D0 and D4 ports on the camera from being used. Code was based upon code from amsacks GitHub verilog project, but was reengineered to fit our needs. Some modifications were needed to implement the camera hardware to communicate well with the FPGA. According to the datasheet found here, https://web.mit.edu/6.111/www/f2016/tools/OV7670_2006.pdf, via the I2C protocal, the SCL and SDA signals on the cameras needed to be pulled up to 3.3V, as it outputs only high Z. This was accomplished with 3.3kOhm resistors tied to a 3.3V power rail on a breadboard. The data signals, D0:D7, were also pulled down to ground with 100kohm resistors. This essentially was found to produce a better image. This camera performs well in darker situations, but not very well in super bright light. There were no issues found in the SystemVerilog code, but some ROM register values may still need to be adjusted to perform well on this FPGA. Your mileage may very in each FPGA, as it did in ours.

Hope you enjoy!